Doing TCP and UDP from the same client to the same server, we encountered an exponential increase in Round Trip Time vs Message size in TCP. This is because since TCP doesn’t drop packets, as the packets got bigger the round trip time skyrocketed towards the end. As for the round trip time for UDP, it remained relatively flat, and near zero as many packets were dropped and after 4kb all the packets were dropped. The UDP had a slightly above zero round trip time with the 4kb packets but other than that the packets had near zero round trip time. As for the throughput, UDP did not have any throughput after 4kb as the packets were large and they were dropped. However the small packets that did send went through really fast as UDP doesn’t setup a connection and just sends all the packets at once. However since TCP sets up a connection and makes sure all packets arrive, all the packets did arrive for TCP, however that overhead caused the throughput to be very low compared to UDP when the packets were sent and received and were not dropped.

As for when we sent TCP and UDP with two clients and one server, the charts looked about the same. RTT got exponentially higher with TCP as the packets got larger. While UDP had some slight round trip time with 1kb, 4kb, 8kb packets but dropped the rest of the bigger packets. The throughput had the same story. For TCP the throughput was relatively the same for all packet sizes, but the UDP throughput was low for both 1kb and 8kb packets, but shot up for 4kb packets. We think there might have been network congestion that slowed down both the 1kb and 8kb packets. As for the lost packets, more and more packets were lost as the packet size was bigger. However one of the clients lost all of the 1kb packets, and we think this is because at the beginning 4 connections from two different clients were started with the server. With 2 TCP and 2 UDP connections, one UDP connection dropped all of the beginning packets. However after the 1kb packets, from 4kb packets onwards the UDP connections seem to drop about the same amount up until the 16kb packets, where both UDP connections dropped everything. 